# **VOIDFILES**
### Guide to proper configuration of my personal ***dotfiles***

---

This config files are intended to be used on distros that offer minimal installations such Void Linux, Arch Linux, Gentoo, etc.

The whole repository can be cloned into the ```$HOME/.config/``` folder with the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/DamianyRosales/voidfiles.git $HOME/.config/
```

---

# Table of contents
- [List of core packages](#corepackages)
- [Fonts](#fonts)
- [i3wm](#i3)
- [alacritty](#alacritty)
- [polybar](#polybar)
- [rofi](#rofi)

## List of core packages <a name="corepackages"></a>

1. i3wm (includes i3-gaps, i3-blocks, i3status)
2. alacritty
3. polybar
4. rofi
5. picom
6. fish

---


## Fonts <a name="fonts"></a>

Command:
```bash
xbps-install font-firacode font-adobe-source-code-pro font-material-design-icons-ttf font-awesome6 font-awesome
```

1. Fira Code
```bash
xbps-install font-firacode
```
2. Source Code Pro
```bash
xbps-install font-adobe-source-code-pro
```
3. Material Design Icons
```bash
xbps-install font-material-design-icons-ttf
```
4. Font Awesome 6
```bash
xbps-install font-awesome6
```
5. Font Awesome
```bash
xbps-install font-awesome
```


## i3 <a name="i3"></a>

```bash
xbps-install i3-gaps i3blocks i3status
```

The config file included in this repository must replace the onw generated by default when i3 is installed, it can be found in the **~/.config/i3/** folder.

Notice that some scripts are runned when i3 is initialized. They are described later on this README, check the table of contents.

This config file is set to run **firefox** as the default web browser, **scrot** binded to the PrintScreen key, etc.

Here are the specific bindings:


```bash
$mod+b exec "firefox"
$mod+d exec "rofi -show drun"
Print exec "scrot"
```

All gaps (excluding bottom and top) are set to 25 px.
Of course, $mod + Enter will open default terminal.


## alacritty <a name="alacritty"></a>

```bash
xbps-install alacritty
```

The alacritty.yml file from this repository uses the following fonts: Fira Code and Source Code Pro.
It is prepared with a Gruvbox-Dark theme already and the opacity is set to 0.5 but it will only work once PICOM is installed.
Padding is 15px for both X and Y.

## polybar <a name="polybar"></a>

```bash
xbps-install polybar
```

The polybar included in the config.ini is prepared to work for a eDP1 monitor, in case of any display error, look for proper monitor name and replace it.
In case of battery display problems, replace the variables **batery** and **adapter**. Look for correct battery and adapter using the following command:

```bash
ls -1 /sys/class/power_supply/
```

The bar will work with the fonts previously mentioned in this readme. Only i3 module is pre-configured.

For backlight scrolling, permissions are needed. You can copy the backlight.rules file into the */etc/udev/rules.d/* folder.

*backlight.rules*
```bash
RUN+="/bin/chgrp wheel /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness"
RUN+="/bin/chmod g+w /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness"
```


# rofi <a name="rofi"></a>

```bash
xbps-install rofi
```


